Strategy can be separated into macro and micro, as in RTS's. Macro consists of
distributing ants to different locations around the map with the goal of
increasing map control and positioning ants to defend one's own hill or raze an
enemy hill. Micro consists of controlling small groups of ants to efficiently
pick up food, raze hills, and engage in combat with enemy ants.


--------  MACRO --------

General Thoughts

In general, the highest priority of macro should be map control. The player with
the greatest map control can spawn ants at a greater rate than the other
players, which in turn allows him to increase his map control, snowballing into
a numbers advantage. This is particularly important at the beginning of the
game.

As the game progresses, it becomes more important to focus attention on
defending one's own hill and attacking enemy hills. The only way to get points
is to raze hills, so there may even be times that it's worth it to abandon one's
own hill in order to successfully raze an enemy hill.

Perhaps there could be some system of identifying combat zones, so we can direct
surplus ants where they're needed while still maintaining good map control to
maintain our ant creation. That system would also be good for controlling
exploring efficiently.

Implementation

As I see it, the main problems in macro implementation are navigation and ant
allocation. The player whose ants get stuck around his hill is at an immediate
disadvantage due to his decreased map control. And of course, the player whose
ants are focused in a place where their numbers cannot be used well is also at a
disadvantage.

Disregarding cost, potential fields seem like the perfect solution for ant
allocation. There are certain places we want our ants to congregate, like near
an enemy hill. We also don't want our ants to clump together too much, as that
exacts a map control penalty. If we try to implement potential fields calculated
on each location, it could become prohibitively expensive, especially if the
field radius is large and we obtain many ants. However, potential fields could
be extremely effective if we reduce the map to a smaller array of sectors. We
can assign ants to sectors using potential fields, then use a different approach
to fine tune their movement.

If we do decide to implement an approach using sectors, it will be very
important to determine which areas are reachable from where. For example, if our
hill is next to a "river" of water, we don't want to try to immediately send
ants across the river. Perhaps we can create sectors as all reachable locations
within a certain distance from a center point, then create more sectors as we
explore more of the map.


-------- MICRO --------

General Thoughts

The two main areas of micro are combat and food collection. Collecting food
seems like the simpler of the two. Basically, the ant closest to the food should
go collect it. If two ants are equally close, send the ant whose path is least
changed by the detour.

The details of combat will probably be relatively complicated, but the basic
strategy of it seems straightforward. Using the terminology of the Focus Battle
Resolution page, we want more of our ants to focus their ants than the other way
around. The best way to accomplish this is to surround the enemy. If we are
stuck in a narrow corridor, we should form a wall and manouver our ants together
in that formation. We can also defend the end of a "corridor" by placing our
ants in a semicircle around the exit. No ants should be able to pass that
barrier.

Implementation

I'm not really sure, here. A-star seems like a relatively efficient algorithm we
could use for navigation and determining closest ant. If we do use sectors, we
could just search the ants in the same sector as the food to reduce complexity.

Maybe we could develop a system of safe and unsafe locations for combat and move
our ants to the safe square closest to the enemy. It seems like this would
induce a natural surrounding behavior.

In order to govern ant behavior, I think we should definitely use a state
machine. Ants can be in states EXPLORE, GATHER, or COMBAT. The priority order
should be COMBAT > GATHER > EXPLORE.
